README.md, before:

# Quip Survey API

This is a Rails API app to manage survey data coming from Quip live apps.

## Routes and Description

### Surveys

#### `GET` Surveys

```
GET /surveys
```

Returns all the Surveys

#### `POST` A New Survey

Adds a new Survey

```
POST /surveys

# data to send over:
# name: "A String to Name the Survey"
```

Returns the saved Survey data, with `201` status. If unsuccessful, returns `400` with an error message:

``` json
{
  "name": [
    "can't be blank"
  ]
}
```

#### `GET` A Single Survey

Get a single survey.

```
GET /surveys/:id

# :id is the Id of the Survey to get
```

Returns the survey data, with a status `200`.

```
{
  "id": 2,
  "name": "December Firs Test A Survey",
  "created_at": "2018-12-20T18:01:05.752Z",
  "updated_at": "2018-12-20T19:25:45.179Z"
}
``` 

If the survey can't be found, then returns `404` with a message:

```
"Couldn't find Survey with 'id'=1"
```

#### `POST/PUT` A Survey to Update

```
GET /surveys/:id

# :id is the Id of the Survey to update
# data to send over:
# name: "A String to rename the Survey"
```

Returns the updated Survey data (same as getting a single Survey), with status of `200`. If the survey isn't found, then returns a `404` and error message. If the survey can't be updated, returns `400` with an error message, such as: 

```
{
  "name": [
    "has already been taken"
  ]
}
```

#### `DELETE` A Single Survey

```
GET /surveys/:id

# :id is the Id of the Survey to delete
```

Will delete the Survey, and return a `204`, with no content.

### Questions

#### `GET` Questions from a Certain Survey

```
GET /surveys/:survey_id/questions

# :survey_id is the Id of the Survey
```

Returns the Questions in the Survey

``` json
[
  {
    "id": 1,
    "question": "Absolute First Question?",
    "order": 1,
    "survey_id": 2,
    "created_at": "2018-12-20T21:43:39.008Z",
    "updated_at": "2018-12-20T22:25:13.003Z"
  },
  {
    "id": 2,
    "question": "Second Question?",
    "order": 2,
    "survey_id": 2,
    "created_at": "2018-12-20T21:45:31.926Z",
    "updated_at": "2018-12-20T21:45:31.926Z"
  }
]
```

#### `POST` A new Question to a Survey

```
POST /surveys/:survey_id/questions

# :survey_id is the Id of the Survey
```

The type of question you want to create determines the data you'll send over. You **must** provide the "type" value in the request body to ensure we can find the proper Question type to create. Valid values, and the applicable request body for type are:

| type       | rest of request body                              |
|------------|---------------------------------------------------|
| text_input | question: "Unique String to Survey" <br>order: Number |

Returns the newly created Question, with status of 202. If the "type" is not defined, returns a `404`. Otherwise, and error is returned with status `400`.

#### `PUT/PATCH` A Question to update

Like with creating a new question, the "type" value provided in the request body is essential to finding which type of question to update. Follow the guidelines in the `POST` section above to see what your request body should include.

```
PUT /questions/:id

# :id is the Id of the Question
```

Returns the updated question, or an error with either `404` or `400` error.

#### `DELETE` A Question to delete

Like with creating a new question, the "type" value provided in the request body is essential to finding which type of question to delete. Follow the guidelines in the `POST` section above to see what your request body should include.

```
DELETE /questions/:id

# :id is the Id of the Question
```

Returns no content with `204` status, or an error with `404`.

### Answers

| type       | rest of request body                              |
|------------|---------------------------------------------------|
| text_input | answer: "Answerrr" <br>quid_id: StringIdFancy     |

#### `GET` Show a single Answer

Like with questions, the "type" value provided in the request body is essential to finding which type of question to retrieve. Follow the information above to determine with values to include in your request body.

```
GET /answers/:id

# :id is the Id of the Answer
```

Returns the the answer details with status of `200`.

``` json
{
    "id": 1,
    "answer": "My considered response, expanded upon",
    "input_text_question_id": 2,
    "quip_id": "QuipIdFancyString",
    "created_at": "2018-12-20T23:36:24.959Z",
    "updated_at": "2018-12-20T23:51:02.107Z"
}
```

Otherwise it returns an error message with either `400` or `404`

#### `POST` Create an Answer to a Question

Once again, the "type" value provided in the request body is essential to finding which type of question to create. 

```
POST /questions/:question_id/answers

# :question_id is the Id of the Associated Question
```

Returns the answer details, along with a status iof `201`. If there is an error it returns it with either status of `400` or `404`.

#### `PUT/PATCH` Update an Answer

Once again, the "type" value provided in the request body is essential to finding which type of question to update. 

```
PUT/PATCH /answers/:id

# :id is the Id of the Answer
```

Returns the answer details, along with a status iof `200`. If there is an error it returns it with either status of `400` or `404`.

## Development

Ensure you have at least Ruby 2.5 and Rails >5 installed. 

``` bash
cd quip_survey_app
bundle install
rails db:setup
rails server
```

Commit message:

secure api, use Heroku setup for local dev

README.md, after:

# Quip Survey API

This is a Rails API app to manage survey data coming from Quip live apps.

## Routes and Description

### Surveys

#### `GET` Surveys

```
GET /surveys
```

Returns all the Surveys

#### `POST` A New Survey

Adds a new Survey

```
POST /surveys

# data to send over:
# name: "A String to Name the Survey"
```

Returns the saved Survey data, with `201` status. If unsuccessful, returns `400` with an error message:

``` json
{
  "name": [
    "can't be blank"
  ]
}
```

#### `GET` A Single Survey

Get a single survey.

```
GET /surveys/:id

# :id is the Id of the Survey to get
```

Returns the survey data, with a status `200`.

```
{
  "id": 2,
  "name": "December Firs Test A Survey",
  "created_at": "2018-12-20T18:01:05.752Z",
  "updated_at": "2018-12-20T19:25:45.179Z"
}
``` 

If the survey can't be found, then returns `404` with a message:

```
"Couldn't find Survey with 'id'=1"
```

#### `POST/PUT` A Survey to Update

```
GET /surveys/:id

# :id is the Id of the Survey to update
# data to send over:
# name: "A String to rename the Survey"
```

Returns the updated Survey data (same as getting a single Survey), with status of `200`. If the survey isn't found, then returns a `404` and error message. If the survey can't be updated, returns `400` with an error message, such as: 

```
{
  "name": [
    "has already been taken"
  ]
}
```

#### `DELETE` A Single Survey

```
GET /surveys/:id

# :id is the Id of the Survey to delete
```

Will delete the Survey, and return a `204`, with no content.

### Questions

#### `GET` Questions from a Certain Survey

```
GET /surveys/:survey_id/questions

# :survey_id is the Id of the Survey
```

Returns the Questions in the Survey

``` json
[
  {
    "id": 1,
    "question": "Absolute First Question?",
    "order": 1,
    "survey_id": 2,
    "created_at": "2018-12-20T21:43:39.008Z",
    "updated_at": "2018-12-20T22:25:13.003Z"
  },
  {
    "id": 2,
    "question": "Second Question?",
    "order": 2,
    "survey_id": 2,
    "created_at": "2018-12-20T21:45:31.926Z",
    "updated_at": "2018-12-20T21:45:31.926Z"
  }
]
```

#### `POST` A new Question to a Survey

```
POST /surveys/:survey_id/questions

# :survey_id is the Id of the Survey
```

The type of question you want to create determines the data you'll send over. You **must** provide the "type" value in the request body to ensure we can find the proper Question type to create. Valid values, and the applicable request body for type are:

| type       | rest of request body                              |
|------------|---------------------------------------------------|
| text_input | question: "Unique String to Survey" <br>order: Number |

Returns the newly created Question, with status of 202. If the "type" is not defined, returns a `404`. Otherwise, and error is returned with status `400`.

#### `PUT/PATCH` A Question to update

Like with creating a new question, the "type" value provided in the request body is essential to finding which type of question to update. Follow the guidelines in the `POST` section above to see what your request body should include.

```
PUT /questions/:id

# :id is the Id of the Question
```

Returns the updated question, or an error with either `404` or `400` error.

#### `DELETE` A Question to delete

Like with creating a new question, the "type" value provided in the request body is essential to finding which type of question to delete. Follow the guidelines in the `POST` section above to see what your request body should include.

```
DELETE /questions/:id

# :id is the Id of the Question
```

Returns no content with `204` status, or an error with `404`.

### Answers

| type       | rest of request body                              |
|------------|---------------------------------------------------|
| text_input | answer: "Answerrr" <br>quid_id: StringIdFancy     |

#### `GET` Show a single Answer

Like with questions, the "type" value provided in the request body is essential to finding which type of question to retrieve. Follow the information above to determine with values to include in your request body.

```
GET /answers/:id

# :id is the Id of the Answer
```

Returns the the answer details with status of `200`.

``` json
{
    "id": 1,
    "answer": "My considered response, expanded upon",
    "input_text_question_id": 2,
    "quip_id": "QuipIdFancyString",
    "created_at": "2018-12-20T23:36:24.959Z",
    "updated_at": "2018-12-20T23:51:02.107Z"
}
```

Otherwise it returns an error message with either `400` or `404`

#### `POST` Create an Answer to a Question

Once again, the "type" value provided in the request body is essential to finding which type of question to create. 

```
POST /questions/:question_id/answers

# :question_id is the Id of the Associated Question
```

Returns the answer details, along with a status iof `201`. If there is an error it returns it with either status of `400` or `404`.

#### `PUT/PATCH` Update an Answer

Once again, the "type" value provided in the request body is essential to finding which type of question to update. 

```
PUT/PATCH /answers/:id

# :id is the Id of the Answer
```

Returns the answer details, along with a status iof `200`. If there is an error it returns it with either status of `400` or `404`.

## Development

Ensure you have at least Ruby 2.5 and Rails >5 installed. Create a .env file locally, and set the following:

```
RACK_ENV=development
PORT=3000
SECURE_KEY=whateveryouwantlocally
```

Then you can install and run the app locally with Heroku:

``` bash
cd quip_survey_app
bundle install
rails db:setup
heroku local
```
